The Joe Rogan experience. Televangelists are one of the very weirdest, uh,
elements of society, where we are. We're allowing people to just lie,
like clearly lie,
but we feel like the lie is so obvious that you have to be so dumb to
believe them. I can't help you. And this is, I made this analogy recently,
cause I was talking about YouTube censorship and how YouTube has decided that
they're going to pull down videos from doctors who have different
opinions on how to handle the coronavirus and criticisms of how things are.
And I'm like, it's really interesting that they make that line.
That that's the line that doctors practicing physicians they'll pull their video
down, but people talk about the flat earth to leave that up. Cause it's, it's,
it's like, it's so dumb. It's like, ah, you can leave that up. That one's,
that one's so dumb.
You have to be a moron to think the earth is hollow and that there's aliens
living inside it, traveling around on laser beams.
There's videos that say that they'll leave those up and they'll leave
televangelists up. But then it gets to these doctors that are saying,
we're looking at the statistics, this is the deaths. This is the deaths, uh,
in terms of age groups.
And this is why it's not nearly as dangerous as we thought it was.
And these quarantines are not the best way to handle it.
We think there's better way. They'll take that video down.
Even if it's someone who's saying rational things. And I,
I don't think that's smart. I don't think that's a healthy way to handle things.
I don't think it's good for the debate. I think in fact,
it strengthens the resolve of the people on the other side that watch those
videos and some of those points resonate with those people.
I think that's not the way to handle it.
I don't think removing those videos is the way to handle it.
I think the way to handle it is let other people with opposing points of view,
put their videos up and let people discuss and debate and
see which one makes more sense to you.
And usually the weight of the information overwhelms the.
And at least with most people,
I don't understand why it's okay to leave some obviously full of
videos up, but take down things that are very,
very controversial, but debatable.
Okay. So this,
this now gets into that part of your episode with Bridget from over the weekend
that I saw where you basically accurately characterize the, the,
the view that I had last time I was on with you about the regulation of social
media. Um,
so first just to play devil's advocate just for a second on,
why do you leave up flat earth, but take down, um, the, you know,
coronavirus videos that you tuber,
whoever disagrees with one can make an argument that there is no real
action someone would take because they believe the earth is flat.
That would endanger others. I mean,
I guess you might try to go to the edge and see if you fall off or something,
right? Like,
but there's no actionable thing for the most part that flat earth belief,
because that's a good point. Whereas if this disinformation about,
so like I'll give you one, I,
there was a video I saw about coronavirus where there was a doctor saying,
you know,
these quarantines are dangerous because if you're not exposed
to bacteria, your um,
immune system will be out of practice essentially. And it's not,
it's going to shut down. It's not going to work as well.
And then another doctor, another YouTube guy who has a YouTube channel,
did a counterpoint where he said, he's talking about the hygienic theory,
but he has it backwards.
It is true that if you were never exposed to dirt and bacteria and
whatever it will impact your immune system,
but it's actually the opposite is what happens.
It's that because you're not regularly exposed to things,
your immune system will overreact and it'll start attacking things that aren't
really a threat. Okay. So what's the harm, I guess. Right?
Like there was a video where these doctors identified what they think is the
problem with the quarantine and then another time approximately.
Secondary. I think it's both things though.
I think it's actually been proven that yeah,
that does happen where your immune system overreacts to people that don't get
exposed to enough. But I think there's also,
it's also been proven that people that are around a lot of different people and
constantly exposed to people have stronger immune systems because of that,
that it does get practice and it does get strengthened by exposure. Oh.
Yeah, no, I think that's what the sort of fact-check was saying,
which is it's completely true that exposing kids, you know,
to the world out there is good,
but that what is being asserted will happen from staying home for two months is,
is both wrong. And it wouldn't happen in two months.
Sit like the idea that a, we can see me and say, I, yeah,
I was wondering about that.
Whether or not it was like a cardiovascular system like that,
it only responds to the level of, you know, work that it needs to do,
like your, your cardiovascular system. You know, you've, if you run,
if you take some time off, but it slacks off really quickly,
it will be a real shame. If that was the case with the immune system.
I don't think it is. But I mean.
I guess the point I was trying to make was if you,
there are a lot of people who are understandably frustrated by what's going on
and they're looking for any excuse to just let it rip so to
speak and go and do whatever. And so I think that the play devil's advocate,
there is a different level of risk from allowing some of this disinformation to
be propagated that doesn't exist with leaving flat earth up.
That's a very good point, very good point. But, but that being said, you know,
we, last time we talked, we had this conversation about like, okay,
if a platform gets to a certain size,
does it not kind of enter some new space where you need someone to
establish some guidelines for some pauses?
Can you real quick, what are the problems with this argument though?
Is that particularly like, did those doctors in Bakersfield,
they weren't spreading disinformation.
They were basically spreading the actual facts of fatalities and age groups
and, and, you know, they just had a different perspective. Well,
not even the different interpretation,
cause basically just going over the statistics,
but they had a different viewpoint of how they should move forward.
And they were also discussing things like furlough doctors and nurses,
because hospitals are no longer doing elective surgery.
So in many hospitals are in the verge of bankruptcy, which apparently is true.
The problem is that's not disinformation.
And so if you're saying that,
if giving people this information makes them make poor choices and they could be
putting themselves at risk or putting loved ones at risk because of that. Yes.
Okay. I'm with you. Yeah, I agree. But this isn't disinformation,
this is actual information.
It's just information with a different perspective other than the,
what we're getting,
which has only one point of view from the world health organization and people
who subscribed to those ideas. So it's not a lie, but I think your point of,
if someone believes in the flat earth, there's no harm in that. That's true.
So if someone believes in pizza gate and they think that there's kids being held
in a basement somewhere and they go and shoot up the store,
then it is a problem right now that kind of a video I can understand where
someone would say, Hey, you know that shouldn't be up there because this is.
And this is, this is what gets caused from that.
I don't think it's the same argument when we're all trying to figure out what's
going on with a medical situation and to practicing
physicians,
to actual medical doctors are talking about their perspective on this virus.
So, no, I don't think they're really on the same line.
Yeah, totally. I totally agree that these are not all equivalent situations. Um,
but for the purposes of, you know, our conversation about like who,
what regulations should be in place, right.
Who gets to regulate or this sort of thing. The,
the point that I had made last time we talked about this was not
necessarily that I'm in favor or against having some kind of infrastructure that
says here's how a social network has to operate YouTube, Twitter, whatever.
We can talk about that. And I'm glad to my argument last time we talked was,
I don't know what the legal case is.
How do you define legally what it is that is supposed to happen?
Is it like what, what would be the legal framework for that?
And there's also a double standard element of it because there's a lot of
really,
really loud right-wingers who are saying the left is being
propped up on social media and the right is being suppressed to put it very
simply, right? And they're calling for regulation,
they're against new regulation on gun safety.
They're against business regulation. They're against stay at home order,
et cetera. Now they want to regulate tweets.
Like that's where now they want regulation.
That seems extremely cynical and hypocritical to me,
but we don't even necessarily have to dig into that to think about like, okay,
if, if we regulate it, how do we regulate it?
Who gets to decide is where you start.
I think we're dealing with the thing.
That's very similar to what we talked about earlier.
The founding fathers who set up this country in the 17 hundreds had no idea what
2020 was going to be like. And I think when you're talking about freedom speech,
it's like, do you still have freedom of speech?
If you could just talk and you can't tweet, well, I guess you do, right.
Do you have still have freedom to get the word out? Well, you do,
but you don't have freedom like you or I do where you could tweet,
or you can make a YouTube video and who gets to have that.
And is that an essential service?
Is that a thing like the post office or a thing?
Like the electricity and the utilities? Is it essential?
An essential thing? I think one could make the argument that in 2020,
it's used by so many people to convey so much information.
And it's so significant that I believe it is an essential thing.
And I think that just banning someone because you don't like what they say or
you don't like how they say it.
I don't think that's a solution nor do I think there's a clear solution because
I think that if you have someone who is hateful and is doxing people and
insulting people and stalking people online and saying horrible things,
that's not good either. Right? There's there's laws about that in person,
you can't harass people in person. Why can you harass people online?
Why can you put up your address and have a bunch of people send terrible things
to your house? Like what, why is that? Okay, well, it shouldn't be okay either.
We need to figure out what's okay and what's not okay.
And I think one of the problems with isolating tech,
I think tech people and people that whether it's Google or apple,
and you've made a really good argument that they may appear left socially,
but they absolutely operate right when it comes to finance when it comes to
their business. And I think that is true.
But I think that when you're dealing with the ability to discuss things,
and you might say that your perspective is the one that you want to hear because
you're a left wing person and these are your beliefs,
but you're isolating the whole other team from being a part of that
conversation.
And maybe they have something you want to hear and maybe they don't have
anything you want to hear, but to not allow them to communicate,
you are alienating a giant chunk of the population.
And if someone gets to a prominent level where they're,
they're communicating a certain way,
and you just decide that that certain way is unacceptable and you kick them off,
you don't just kick them off.
You also silence all the other people that are along or aligned with
them because they have similar ideas and they didn't want to speak out either.
When you, when you band James Woods, you don't just ban James Woods,
you ban a lot of other people from saying something they might be furious about,
you know, the, the Russia investigation,
whatever they want to express themselves. And they, they, they, they panic.
They get scared. They worry that they're going to get that censorship.
That's a form of censorship. And I think these companies,
I don't blame them because I don't think they had any idea what they were going
to become. And I think they're all adjusting along the way.
I think when Twitter was first, when Twitter first came out,
do you remember that,
like you would write at David PackMan is going to the movies. You like you like,
you know, Joe Rogan just had a great pizza. That's what you did. I mean, it,
wasn't this thing where you got to express yourself and 240 whatever characters
and we're in a different world now.
And I think this different world needs some different examination about what the
ability to communicate online is. And this is, uh,
an important point because Alex Jones made some crazy video after our
conversation that I had with him yesterday,
where he was saying that I'm going to war against censorship in a war against
YouTube. That's, I'm not doing any of those things. Uh, I made this deal.
With Spotify, Spotify. I made the deal with.
Spotify because it's a great company and it's a great deal.
And I'm excited to be in a partnership with a company as opposed to like a
company that I just put my stuff up on their platform,
whether it's apple or YouTube. I don't like that. YouTube sensors things.
I don't like that. They do that like with those doctors in Bakersfield. Uh,
but I'm not at war with them and not a war with anybody and I'm not okay.
I don't, I don't envy them their position.
I don't think it's smart to censor practicing doctors when they have differing
opinions. I think we need to find out who's right.
And I think the way you find out who's right,
is you get people who are experts and they disagree.
There's Nobel laureates out there. And I've, I've,
I've watched several videos that are talking about this lockdown and that it's
not a good idea.
There's people that believe in herd mentality versus immunizations and or
vaccines. And I don't know who's right.
And I would like them to all be able to discuss it equally and openly that said,
I don't envy Twitter. I don't envy YouTube. I don't envy any of these people.
The idea of trying to manage this in real time,
while it explodes and takes over the way human beings communicate over a period
of a decade, just like that.
That's so instantaneous and mistakes have been made. And in my opinion,
when it comes to the way things are censored and the way it's made
these mistakes, particularly on Twitter far favor the left and they're,
they're not balanced.
And like some horrible things that people on the left say about people on the
right. And it's nothing. It gets just gets washed away.
But when the people do it, who are on the right about people on the left,
they get banned. It's not fair. And when things aren't fair,
one side has a better argument that they're being censored and that there's some
sort of a conspiracy and it divides people even more.
It strengthens the hate instead of, instead of like, I think most people,
the vast majority, 70,
80% are reasonable people that you could have a conversation with.
If you were in front of them,
one-on-one when they don't feel like they're a part of the conversation or when
they speak their side and their stuff gets deleted or removed or put into some,
you know, some shadow banned category. It's, it's infuriating for people.
And it's not good for all of us as a community.
And I think that is the burden that these places like YouTube or, or,
or Twitter, they have to shoulder this burden. And, um,
I don't know how to do it. I don't know. I mean,
Republicans have one perspective.
There's many people like yourself that have the perspective, like, listen,
it's their company should not, they be able to make their own rules.
I think they're too big. I think they're too big for that now.
And I think that it's,
it's in this position where it literally is a part of who we are
as, as human beings,
the ability to express ideas and communicate is so critical right now.
And as we're evolving and as we're are, we're,
we're evolving our culture and our civilization discourse is so
important. It's, it's, it's, it's a giant part of being a human being in 2020.
And I don't think it should be just flippantly removed from people.
So my personal view is very similar to yours in terms of, you know,
short of like illegal content and really very specific things.
My instinct is leave it up and let the, the sort of, uh,
let people evaluate it, let people publish counter points. That's my,
my personal view. Now the, the conservative view on this is,
you know, if you,
if this cake baker doesn't want to bake a cake because of who you want to marry,
you don't do anything to the baker. You just go and, you know, the market will,
if there is a demand for those types of cakes, for those types of weddings,
bakers will enter the market. And that's it.
If you apply that here and we'll get to the differences in a second,
if you apply that here, if the James Woods is,
want to say stuff and a whole bunch of people want to hear that stuff,
why don't they just go and make their platform and bring everybody over?
It sounds like a great business, right? Yeah.
It does sound a great business.
It's way harder to do way harder to do than just do it. I mean, to say,
why don't you make another Twitter? Well, there would be a thousand Twitters.
It's obviously very difficult. No one's ever been able to do it.
It's not something that's, it's, you're,
you're talking about something that takes an enormous amount of resources. It's,
it's not that it's not that simple.
And everybody already.
Does, but everybody already does use Twitter.
So I think the question really is does Twitter have a responsibility for
fair and even treatment? You know, and I I'm sure you've seen some of those, uh,
James Veritas, uh, James O'Keefe for other project Veritas videos where they,
uh, secret cameras, filming executives,
talking about how to censor conservative people. Um, I.
I've seen a little bit of it. What, what I do remember is from the, um, uh,
planned parenthood era,
where what they published was pretty dramatically dishonest from what I recall,
but I've not seen the one you're referring to specifically. That was a long.
Time ago. It wasn't. How long ago was that? The planned parenthood stuff?
Was it five years? Are you talking about the acorn stuff? The, uh,
the stuff where the,
they brought in a pimp to try to get money for opening up a brothel.
It's been so long that the details escape me, but I remember that there,
I remember that incident.
I've not really seen anything recently that they've done it. You have.
Deceptive editing, you know, the problem is even if in the future you're don't,
you don't do that anymore. It's like,
everyone's always going to remember that you did do something. Yes.
You did do something that wasn't straightforward. Cut dry, no emotion,
journalism just here are the facts, uh,
planned parenthood awarded $2 million in lawsuit over secret videos.
Interesting. That's not good.
Yeah, that was, that was that's. That's my,
a big memory when you mentioned that, that, uh, that organization. But,
so I think that let's say we agree about something needs to be done once you're
at a certain level,
you enter a new category and some kind of regulation has to be done.
Who does the regulation? When you look at, uh, redistricting, for example,
this has been like a multi-decade thing where when Republicans are empowered,
they draw the districts in a way that's favorable to them.
Democrats are in power.
They take the opportunity to redraw districts that are favorable to them.
You have these ideas of, okay,
we'll have a commission with three Democrats and three Republicans,
and together they'll figure out how the districts could be drawn fairly.
How do you apply that at what? The lesson from that?
How do you apply it to there's the Trump administration decide what kind of
content must be left up versus what can be removed,
but then that administration gets replaced. Now, the next administration says,
here's how Twitter is supposed to operate. Like, how do you do it?
A really good question. And it's a really hard question. That's what I'm saying.
I don't, I don't envy those people. Um, you know,
I really liked Jack Dorsey as a person. I really enjoy talking to him.
I think he's a very thoughtful guy. And in, in discussing this with him,
both on the show and off the show, you know, they,
they don't really know exactly how to handle these things.
So they don't really know what the perfect solution is.
And he's even proposed a wild west Twitter,
and then a Twitter that's under some sort of moderation.
Um, and I don't know where they stand on that right now,
but that was something that they were, he was actively bringing up. Like,
let's have a Twitter where anything goes,
you could like read it in the early days.
You could do whatever the you wanted versus what they're, what they have now.
Um, but here's another example when, when you, when a person gets so big,
like Trump, you can get away, you could do on Twitter.
That there's no way you could do, right? Like,
have you seen the recent thing where he's accusing Joe Scarborough of, uh,
possibly being a part of a murder or something like that?
I saw that he's bringing up. I mean, apparently totally.
I don't know the exact details of the story, but it been investigated.
It had nothing to do with it. It was just so many worked with, and,
and Trump is,
he's putting out this thing particularly just to try to target Joe
Scarborough, get his fans to go nutty and with him, you know?
And that's a weird way of that.
That that's a right wing guy who is literally the top right-wing guy. Right.
So, yeah, right-wing bias. Doesn't seem to apply totally, uh, you know,
negative bias when it, when it comes to the president and the president,
when you get to a certain level, like you could just do like that.
Like you could just threaten North Korea. Like you could say,
we have the best muscles, we'll you up. Like he can tweet that he could tweet,
Hey, Hey buddy, I'm glad you fake your death. And I know you're still alive,
but I just want you to know we got the best muscles and we'll you up.
Have he tweeted that like, whoa, but this is not.
Really a unique,
the Twitter in the sense that if you look at our justice system,
there's sort of like the justice system for the elites.
And then for other people,
the focus on street crime instead of white collar crime, I mean, this,
this exists in a lot of different places.
What kind of really big business get away with versus what can a small business
get away. So I don't think that's different.
One of the things I'm thinking about is what's the main point of Twitter,
like Twitter is a publicly traded corporation. So at this point,
is it fair to say that the main point of Twitter is to be profitable and,
and deliver a return to shareholders?
Because if it is all the stuff we're talking about,
about how we would like to see it operate is sort of irrelevant because they now
have this fiduciary responsibility to just make money.
Right? What do you think Twitter's worth? Like, like if someone,
if someone wanted to come over and buy it,
what if the government bought Twitter and just applied the first amendment to
Twitter? What if the government said, listen, you guys are kicking, great job.
However, you're basically a public utility for communication of ideas.
And it's imperative that for Liberty and for the ability for people to have free
speech, everyone has to have access to this.
And so when you go to maybe it's like one of those things,
if you go to jail for a horrible felony, you lose your ability to vote.
Maybe you go to jail for something you lose your ability to tweet. You know,
I mean.
Could it be 300 billion? I have no idea.
I wonder how much it is. I mean,
how much are they spending on these stimulus packages?
I wonder if they probably buy it cheap right now, to me,
I don't think Twitter really makes money either. I don't think it makes money.
You know,
I think Twitter is when those weird situations where it's worth something.
But I don't, I don't know if it actually does. I don't,
I don't think it's in the, in the profitable area. Right. I don't think it's,
I don't think it's making, is it didn't you when we talked,
Jamie and I talked about this fairly recently. Yeah. It's complicated. You know,
some things make sense, like Google makes sense, right? They use Google ads.
They make a load of money. YouTube makes sense. It's profitable.
It all makes sense. Twitter's like, where are you at?
Where's the money coming from? Like, it's so valuable, but, and it's,
so it's such a useful tool, but how does, how do they make money?
That means so literally there are ads on Twitter as well, right? Boosted posts,
promoted advertisements, et cetera.
I have no idea how much money they're making from that versus what is the value
of the user base? Wasn't there.
Point recently where a very,
very conservative investor bought a giant chunk of Twitter and was thinking
about kicking out Jack Dorsey.
Wasn't that something that was brought up really recently? No,
I don't know about that. You remember that? Jamie? That was a,
there was a situation. Right. But I don't know if that's how it went down.
Like fairly recently,
someone just bought a controlling stake or a large stake look, man.
I just think, is there,
is there anyone you would trust to regulate Twitter and YouTube and Facebook?
Like who would you, who would do it? Ooh.
That's a good question. I don't think it should be one person either.
I think it's also like president, like being president.
I don't think she should be the president of Twitter.
I really think it might be wise for all of us to consider it like a
public utility. You would socialize Twitter. Yeah.
I'd give it to Bernie.
It's incredible.
I think something that has that kind of power,
when it comes to expression, it's a, it's valuable for human beings.
I would never want to take it away from the people that own it obviously.
But I just think as a concept that we should consider that
what we have here with something like Twitter,
or even maybe there's a good argument for YouTube as well, that what these,
these new abilities to express yourself are
there they're incredibly important in terms of the process of our culture,
the process of going over ideas and evolving those ideas.
There's no better way to do that than open communication.
There's no better open communication than Twitter and YouTube.
Like in terms of regular people,
you can start a YouTube video right now on your phone.
I can just set the phone up here,
press record and start talking and then upload it. And bam,
my thoughts could be available to anybody. And I think that's so valuable.
It's so it's so important in terms of our ability to go back and forth with
ideas and we're changing those ideas.
Obviously the way we thought about life in 1960 is very different than the way
we think about life today. And a lot of that comes from discourse.
A lot of that comes from discussion and the evolution of these ideas.
Jamie has something hold on.
I think there was a potential corporate takeover that tried,
that maybe happen with them in an agreement.
Uh, Twitter reaches deal with activist fund that wanted Jack Dorsey out.
They made a deal. They met on island.
And they all, uh, no.
Listen. I mean, I,
I couldn't agree more strongly with you about the importance of these platforms.
My entire business is built on them. I mean,
I have no business if it weren't for this. I think,
I think the difficulties are what, what are,
what are the standards that are applied? And I also like,
I don't want to sound like one of these free market right-wingers,
but what's the legal bit. You would have to first establish a legal basis.
You would have to establish law that says,
once you have this number of users or this number of page views or whatever,
you now are bound by this new set of, of laws.
And that is complex to say the least it's very.
Complex. It's very complex. And I don't, I don't, I have no idea how it would,
one would even begin and how long the process of figuring out what the rules
should be, how long it would take before we all agreed on that. But I, and I,
and I think that would be another great argument for the ability to express
yourself because informing these laws,
we would want to hear all perspectives,
perspectives from people that have been harmed by social media and you know,
and Twitter mobs and like that. And what should be done about that?
And the same could be said about YouTube as well. I think,
but one thing that no one can deny is how significant these,
these tools are, whether it's Twitter or YouTube or, you know,
any new one that comes out, whether it's tick-tock or whatever, they're,
they're really powerful. There's, there's something to them.
That's unprecedented in the history of humanity, you know,
and we can't just apply the old rules to them. Just doesn't make sense.
I don't think it's good for us. What,
when I have talked to conservative people about this, there,
if you're not accustomed to it,
if you're not accustomed to feeling like you're censored and you're angry,
you don't know what it's like until you're around these people. And then you,
you see their frustration and their anger and their, their fury at Twitter for,
for doing that. And for,
for censoring voices that are similar to their perspectives,
instead of just letting the process take place, like it's always has been,
it's just in a different form. The process of being able to talk through ideas.
One.
Of the risks of this is that once you assert a right to
a platform to exist on a platform that supersedes Twitter or
YouTube, his ability to say for whatever reason,
because they're a company that can have terms and conditions and they say,
we just don't want this. If,
if YouTube was determined that they don't want gardening content on YouTube,
I can't think of a legal reason why they can't say no gardening content. I mean,
as long as they're not by virtue of banning gardening content, you know,
banning people on the basis of membership in some protected class or something
like that, right? Like if you are, if all gardeners were of a certain race,
you could make the case that by proxy, by banning gardening content,
they're banning people of a certain race. I don't.
Know how you.
Prevent that from then being applied elsewhere.
Like what other platforms would people have a right to?
And this gets to speakers who say I was censored because a certain
school wouldn't have me to speak there. It's like, well, hold on,
you don't have a right to speak at any particular schools.
Schools can make decisions about what they want and what they don't want.
As long as you're not being discriminated against, based on your identity.
Is it not sort of the same thing with YouTube? Like what,
what is the legal basis for saying they can no longer make these decisions?
Well.
It's a big, there's a big difference. First of all,
a school is a single destination. That's a physical place, right?
So you can decide, you know, this is a conservative school.
We don't want people coming over here and talking about this,
or this is a very progressive school.
We don't want to have someone from the KKK,
come here and tell us how all races are not equal.
That's a very different thing. When you're,
when you're doing something like YouTube, the real question is,
is it just a business? Is it just a business it's owned by people?
And they have the right to do whatever they want or is at least, I mean, well,
you know, you're on YouTube, you're, you're called a partner, right.
They refer to you as a partner. David PackMan is a YouTube partner. Right.
But you, you know, and in some ways you are right,
cause you put out a lot of content. You're huge.
You can put out a lot of content and that content is an integral part of like,
look, they have a, uh,
progressive news sort of empire,
really when you really stop and look about and homemade shows like yours,
um, you know, like, uh, there's, there's many,
many of them that you could watch, uh, Kyle Kalinsky, um,
and Jimmy Dore and all these folks are doing these shows, uh,
basically from scratch, right?
There's no large production company behind it or any of the things that,
so they've, they've, they've got this whole empire of,
you're a part of it. You're part of this whole news empire,
and there's many categories, but
what they are is not as simple as just a business,
they are a business,
but what they all are as well with all the executives,
all the people that YouTube as an entity is one of the most powerful tools for
expression the world's ever known.
So if you have this incredibly powerful tool for expression,
at what point in time, when you, when you able to deny people,
the use of that thing and why, and what is freedom of expression,
if it doesn't apply to these new tools, what is the first amendment?
If it doesn't apply to these new tools, if someone can come along and say, Hey,
I know you're a doctor and a practicing physician, but I'm 28.
And I live in Palo Alto and I say, you,
because I believe in the WHL and I don't believe in you,
and I'm just going to delete your video.
And it seems to me that I followed the rules that YouTube has set forth about.
Uh, you know, if you don't agree with the who,
and you're giving some sort of contrary coronavirus information deli,
and I don't, I don't think that's wise. I don't think that's wise.
I think this is a very,
very complicated issue that should be debated publicly and discuss publicly
whether or not these people have the right to be heard.
And this is just one example that we keep bringing up,
but there's many different kinds of things that fit along those lines. You know,
when you just want to ban all conspiracy theories, air quotes,
the problem with conspiracy theories is first of all,
the word as a pejorative was created to try to steer people away from the
Kennedy assassination,
which is like one of the greatest conspiracies of all time. Some,
some people did that, whether it was Lee Harvey Oswald by himself.
I highly doubt it. I think there's probably other people involved.
I think it was a conspiracy so called.
Conspiracy. And I know too much about it. I know too much.
About it. We could spend the rest of the day discussing that and let's not. But.
The first amendment though,
I don't think the first amendment is in play here because you're not talking
about the government. When you talk about YouTube.
I think we should revise the first amendment. This is what I'm saying.
I think freedom of expression used to be you.
I can't infringe upon your right to express yourself,
but that was like yelling on a apple box. You know, like w when,
when that was created,
the really other than writing something in print or yelling,
something in a public square, the weren't a lot of ways to express yourself.
Now,
the most powerful way the world has ever known has come along to express
yourself. And that's social media, that's YouTube and Twitter.
And what are those things and how much of a responsibility do the
people who own those things have to adhere to the fundamental ideas that
got us to this Republic in the first place.
And I think there's a real good argument that they're more powerful than simply
just a company that they have this amazing ability to get information out.
And that this is, I mean,
it should certainly be profitable and I don't deny them their profitability.
I mean, they've made an amazing thing.
They've created something that we all benefit from.
They should make a load of money,
but I think we should really be careful about who gets to use this and
who doesn't get to use this just because someone says something that you
disagree with it get other people to also agree with them.
Doesn't mean they should be shut down if you don't agree with what they're
saying, if you don't like what they're saying,
you probably shouldn't view it or listen to it or read it.
You should probably find something else too, or examine why you don't like it.
And this is where thinking comes in.
This is where critical thinking and discussion comes in.
And this is a huge part of managing a community of managing a
civilization. So the, one of the biggest parts of managing this civilization,
this kind of discourse is limited and it's limited in censored and people can
arbitrarily decide to just remove you from.